Active & Passive Voice




Q1. The cat drank the milk.
A) The milk was drunk by the cat.
B) The milk is drunk by the cat.
C) The milk had been drunk by the cat.
D) The milk is being drunk by the cat.
Answer: A) The milk was drunk by the cat.

Q2. She is singing a beautiful song.
A) A beautiful song is sung by her.
B) A beautiful song is being sung by her.
C) A beautiful song has been sung by her.
D) A beautiful song was being sung by her.
Answer: B) A beautiful song is being sung by her.

Q3. He has completed the assignment on time.
A) The assignment is completed by him on time.
B) The assignment was completed by him on time.
C) The assignment has been completed by him on time.
D) The assignment had been completed by him on time.
Answer: C) The assignment has been completed by him on time.

Q4. I will clean the house every Saturday.
A) The house will be cleaned by me every Saturday.
B) The house is cleaned by me every Saturday.
C) The house will clean by me every Saturday.
D) The house would be cleaned by me every Saturday.
Answer: A) The house will be cleaned by me every Saturday.

Q5. The teacher was teaching the students in the auditorium.
A) The students were taught by the teacher in the auditorium.
B) The students had been taught by the teacher in the auditorium.
C) The students were being taught by the teacher in the auditorium.
D) The students are being taught by the teacher in the auditorium.
Answer: C) The students were being taught by the teacher in the auditorium.

Q6. Who broke this beautiful glass?
A) By whom has this beautiful glass been broken?
B) By whom is this beautiful glass broken?
C) By whom was this beautiful glass broken?
D) Who was this beautiful glass broken by?
Answer: C) By whom was this beautiful glass broken?

Q7. They are going to build a new bridge here.
A) A new bridge is built here by them.
B) A new bridge is going to be built here.
C) A new bridge will be built here.
D) A new bridge was going to be built here.
Answer: B) A new bridge is going to be built here.

Q8. Open the window.
A) The window should be opened.
B) Let the window be opened.
C) Let the window opened.
D) The window must be opened.
Answer: B) Let the window be opened.

Q9. People speak English all over the world.
A) English is spoken all over the world.
B) English was spoken all over the world.
C) English is being spoken all over the world.
D) English has been spoken all over the world.
Answer: A) English is spoken all over the world.

Q10. We must respect our elders.
A) Our elders deserve respect.
B) Our elders must respected by us.
C) Our elders must be respected.
D) Our elders should respected.
Answer: C) Our elders must be respected.

Q11. The building was damaged by the fire.
A) The fire damages the building.
B) The fire was damaging the building.
C) The fire damaged the building.
D) The fire has damaged the building.
Answer: C) The fire damaged the building.

Q12. Let the door be closed.
A) Close the door.
B) You should close the door.
C) The door should be closed.
D) Please close the door.
Answer: A) Close the door.

Q13. Why did he deprive you of your membership?
A) Why you were deprived of your membership?
B) Why were you deprived of your membership by him?
C) Why was he deprived of his membership?
D) Why were you deprived of your membership by you?
Answer: B) Why were you deprived of your membership by him?

Q14. Has anyone answered your question?
A) Is your question answered?
B) Has your question been answered?
C) Was your question answered?
D) Had your question been answered?
Answer: B) Has your question been answered?

Q15. One should keep one's promises.
A) Promises should be kept by someone.
B) Promises should be kept.
C) Once promises should be kept.
D) Promises must be kept.
Answer: B) Promises should be kept.

Q16. The boy laughed at the beggar.
A) The beggar was laughed at by the boy.
B) The beggar was laughed by the boy.
C) The beggar is laughed at by the boy.
D) The beggar was being laughed at by the boy.
Answer: A) The beggar was laughed at by the boy.

Q17. They had not done their tasks.
A) Their tasks had not been done by them.
B) Their tasks have not been done by them.
C) Their tasks were not done by them.
D) Their tasks are not being done by them.
Answer: A) Their tasks had not been done by them.

Q18. Everyone knows him.
A) He is known by everyone.
B) He is known to everyone.
C) He was known to everyone.
D) He has been known by everyone.
Answer: B) He is known to everyone.

Q19. I remember my sister taking me to the museum.
A) I remember taken to the museum by my sister.
B) I remember myself being taken to the museum by my sister.
C) I remember being taken to the museum by my sister.
D) I remember to be taken to the museum by my sister.
Answer: C) I remember being taken to the museum by my sister.

Q20. It is time to water the plants.
A) It is time for the plants to be watered.
B) It is time the plants be watered.
C) The plants should be watered in time.
D) It is time when plants are watered.
Answer: A) It is time for the plants to be watered.