Direct & Indirect Speech



Q1. John said, "I am very busy now."
A) John said that he is very busy now.
B) John said that he is very busy then.
C) John said that he was very busy then.
D) John said that I was very busy then.
Answer: C) John said that he was very busy then.

Q2. He said, "I have been reading this book."
A) He said that he is reading this book.
B) He said that he has been reading this book.
C) He said that he had read that book.
D) He said that he had been reading that book.
Answer: D) He said that he had been reading that book.

Q3. She said to me, "Are you coming with us?"
A) She asked me if I am coming with them.
B) She asked me if I was coming with them.
C) She asked me if you are coming with us.
D) She asked me if I will come with them.
Answer: B) She asked me if I was coming with them.

Q4. "Bring me a glass of water," said the master to the servant.
A) The master requested the servant to bring him a glass of water.
B) The master asked the servant if he can bring him a glass of water.
C) The master ordered the servant to brought him a glass of water.
D) The master ordered the servant to bring him a glass of water.
Answer: D) The master ordered the servant to bring him a glass of water.

Q5. The teacher said, "The earth revolves around the sun."
A) The teacher said that the earth revolves around the sun.
B) The teacher said that the earth revolved around the sun.
C) The teacher said that the earth had revolved around the sun.
D) The teacher said if the earth revolves around the sun.
Answer: A) The teacher said that the earth revolves around the sun.

Q6. He said, "Alas! I am undone."
A) He exclaimed with joy that he was undone.
B) He exclaimed that he is undone.
C) He exclaimed with sorrow that he was undone.
D) He said alas he was undone.
Answer: C) He exclaimed with sorrow that he was undone.

Q7. The captain said to his men, "Stand at ease."
A) The captain urged his men to stand at ease.
B) The captain commanded his men to stand at ease.
C) The captain commanded his men that they stand at ease.
D) The captain told his men for standing at ease.
Answer: B) The captain commanded his men to stand at ease.

Q8. She said, "I will do it tomorrow."
A) She said that she would do it the next day.
B) She said that she will do it tomorrow.
C) She said that she would do it tomorrow.
D) She said that she will do it the next day.
Answer: A) She said that she would do it the next day.

Q9. He asked me, "What are you doing?"
A) He asked me what was I doing.
B) He asked me what I am doing.
C) He asked me what I was doing.
D) He asked me what are you doing.
Answer: C) He asked me what I was doing.

Q10. "Don't play in the sun," the mother said to the boy.
A) The mother ordered the boy not playing in the sun.
B) The mother requested the boy not to play in the sun.
C) The mother told the boy don't play in the sun.
D) The mother forbade the boy to play in the sun.
Answer: D) The mother forbade the boy to play in the sun.

Q11. He said, "I am glad to be here this evening."
A) He said that he is glad to be here this evening.
B) He said that he was glad to be there that evening.
C) He said that he was glad to be here this evening.
D) He says that he was glad to be there that evening.
Answer: B) He said that he was glad to be there that evening.

Q12. David said, "I bought this car yesterday."
A) David said that he had bought that car the previous day.
B) David said that he bought this car the previous day.
C) David said that he had bought this car yesterday.
D) David said that he bought that car yesterday.
Answer: A) David said that he had bought that car the previous day.

Q13. The doctor said to the patient, "Take complete rest."
A) The doctor suggested the patient for taking complete rest.
B) The doctor told to the patient to take complete rest.
C) The doctor advised the patient to take complete rest.
D) The doctor requested the patient take complete rest.
Answer: C) The doctor advised the patient to take complete rest.

Q14. She said, "Let us go for a walk."
A) She proposed to go for a walk.
B) She said that they will go for a walk.
C) She asked if they should go for a walk.
D) She proposed that they should go for a walk.
Answer: D) She proposed that they should go for a walk.

Q15. He said to me, "Do you know the way?"
A) He asked me if I know the way.
B) He asked me if I knew the way.
C) He asked me that did I know the way.
D) He asked me whether I had known the way.
Answer: B) He asked me if I knew the way.

Q16. The boy said, "Hurrah! We have won the match."
A) The boy exclaimed with joy that they had won the match.
B) The boy exclaimed with joy that they have won the match.
C) The boy exclaimed with sorrow that they had won the match.
D) The boy said hurrah that they had won the match.
Answer: A) The boy exclaimed with joy that they had won the match.

Q17. My father said to me, "May you live long!"
A) My father told me that I might live long.
B) My father prayed that you may live long.
C) My father prayed that I might live long.
D) My father said to me that I may live long.
Answer: C) My father prayed that I might live long.

Q18. The stranger asked, "Where do you live?"
A) The stranger asked where do I live.
B) The stranger asked where did I live.
C) The stranger asked where I live.
D) The stranger asked where I lived.
Answer: D) The stranger asked where I lived.

Q19. He said, "I can swim across the river."
A) He said that he can swim across the river.
B) He said that he could swim across the river.
C) He told that he could swim across the river.
D) He said if he could swim across the river.
Answer: B) He said that he could swim across the river.

Q20. She said, "I must leave at once."
A) She said that she had to leave at once.
B) She said that she must have left at once.
C) She said that she must be leaving at once.
D) She said that she has to leave at once.
Answer: A) She said that she had to leave at once.